Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today's Monday, January the
12th, and this is the Moneyball Morning
Report for the Benzinga Pro platform.
Earnings, believe it or not, are upon us
again and we're going to have pretty
exciting the next few weeks, but it
feels like there's so much more going on
the market. It's you're almost like,
"Yeah, earnings. Yeah, whatever." But
they are going to be important. What I
want to start with in the E- Mini S&P is
the 4hour chart so that we can keep our
eyes on the big picture. The big picture
is we're still headed higher. Higher
lows, higher highs. All right, there's a
big uh connection down with this trend
line and then the higher one that is
closer. We have two alerts set here
today. Actually, we should probably make
it three since this is a target zone.
Let's make this a target event. And so
what we are thinking is pullbacks are
going to be buy zones. So where's the
ideal pullback event? Well, we just
missed it at about 2:00 this morning.
Let's go to the 30 minute.
At about 3:30 this morning, it triggered
this test old support and then the
recapture of the zone, but trend is
negative and momentum
though in negative location is starting
to lift. So what you want to look for is
a double bottoming event at this 6950
area. Remember the story board is if and
then if it comes back to 6950 and it
holds the area. Now holds the area might
mean it's got about a fivepoint stop
underneath there.
Then it's going to be an upside pressure
event first into the point of control
and then you know wherever the VWAP is
sitting and into relative resistance.
Our first target event is
uh going to be up here near 6979.
Let me see. Ah, it won't let me do that.
Okay. Because I set these markers on the
4 hour, they're a little bit wide. So
they might come off a little early when
my alert my alert triggers. But that
6975 is a number that we know. 6979
resistance. Remember these red candles
are candles that are saying, "Hey,
listen. I'm breaking the ATR of this
formation." So as the ATR breaks, right?
And we go, "Wow, this is moving faster
than the ATR prescribes in the space."
And it gets below that moving average.
We know we've got sell zone formations.
This is the first area, old support,
potentially new support. The buy area
and the take-profit area 6975 all the
way up to 7,6 and beyond. Could we just
chop around in here? Yes, we've got a
lot of stuff going on. We've got the
Supreme Court coming out with uh the
rulings on the tariffs. You know, a lot
of people saying constitutionally
boundaries were stepped over, blah blah
blah blah blah. We could have ourselves
a very volatile market. Just be careful.
You want to be very careful. We do
notice 4hour charts are upside, but
notice what happens. Every time we get a
big rise, 100% of the move gets
retraced, right? Especially over the
last several days. So, we really need to
be careful there. losing 69.50. Let's
say if it comes to 69.50 and it bounces,
but it cannot stay over 6957,
we've got short action
into the lower boundaries of support.
And that is 6922
all the way to potentially 6911. Right,
that's where one of our last numbers is
sitting. The VWAP for this time frame is
6913. So we would look at it that way.
When you start trading and you say, "Oh,
okay. I need to set something up."
Remember, we never know whether we're
going to be right. The only thing we can
control is how much risk we have at
play. That's why we have to say if and
then because if the if comes in, hey, if
we get to 750, I'm shorting it. Okay?
There's no ant. You just have a then
there. But what if you get the 750 and
the price action starts rising?
How do you know where the stop action is
going to be? Right? That's what makes
things very difficult here in the NQ.
This is a very messy pattern. Deep dips
clearly buys.
However, this area at 25,750.
If you want to go long, you must once it
gets up over that level, you must wait
for it to test above and pull back and
give you a higher low. Right now, it
moved above, broke down, tested the
zone, broke down again, tested the zone
again, and broke down. So to me, this
looks like a very messy patch because
although it's breaking down, it's making
higher lows.
That's a contrarian event. We have to
watch for that. And so if you're staring
that down, if you want to go short, you
need to let it confirm. You want to go
long, you need to let it confirm. Okay?
Very very important confirmation
required here simply because the chart
is in a massively choppy space inventory
accumulating
all around
this particular zone. Do I think where
do I think the ideal bounce pattern is?
I like 25,600
25,598.
If we can come down to that area and we
bounce
and retest with a higher low, we are
going to have ourselves a pretty nice
region. If you just come in and go,
well, hey, I believe it's going to
bounce right there
without watching it confirm. You've got
about 30 to 35 points of risk based on
this wick that you can try it that way.
But the bounces are into selling
pressure because trend is down and trend
is master and commander. If you happen
to get the double bottom at 25,600
and you're fortunate enough to hold it
and it moves up above 25,750,
it's time to take some profit. Move your
stop up and you can walk it all the way
up to the next trigger at 25,850.
If it loses this 600 level, 25,600,
the next line in the sand is more than
175 points below. Okay. With a gamma
line at 25,500,
which used to be an old port wall,
right? The new port wall is way to the
north at 25,
900. And so now 25,
850. And that is uh that tells us that
the traders are a little upside down. So
what we want to watch is where are they
accumulating inventory? Obviously they
tried to accumulate here. It broke out.
They were able to distribute for a
profit. They tried to accumulate here.
It broke out. They were able to
distribute for a profit. What do I
suspect? It's going to come down into
this area, chop around, and then more
than likely
Oh, our oil trigger just went off. We'll
see what goes on. more than likely it'll
move up to the north. Remember if and
then
let's go to micro Bitcoin.
This one very choppy, very sideways
inventory accumulating
all the way from
I say 89,900
down
to actually up to 90,000. We just lost
this trigger just an hour ago. Look at
the slope of momentum trend. Very steep.
Don't step in front of this bus. Uh
it's, you know, all
all gas, no brakes. So just be careful
sitting right here. Watch for it to come
in, test the put, and then begin to
bounce. If it comes in, tests the put
and begins to bounce and gives us a
higher low, this is the formation, then
you get yourself a long. Does that sound
like a lot of things you got to do for a
trade to go off? Yes. But I mean, you're
not playing whack-a-ole, right? You're
you're a a day trader, so you've got to
have some sense. You just can't go,
"Hey, I'm buying it here." Just manage
that risk. We do know value area low
90,500
pretty important level. It's got to get
up over this 90,685
and then retested to let us know we've
got upside traction right now. It still
looks like the dips are getting bought,
right? But this momentum event and this
trend event means stay out of the way.
Just watch yourself. Okay. Call wall
very high up 95,000. put wall. Um,
where in the world? Oh, the put wall is
down at 80,000. So, that's moved very
far below. That's really something that
we've got to watch. All right, let's
take a look at the silver futures.
Oops, sorry, wrong one.
Uh so here are silver futures moving up
dramatically, right? This is uh this is
war cycle movement as well as you know
potential issues that might be going on
with this one. Let me take a look at
yeah let's use this contract.
Let me double check on the price if you
don't mind. Hang on two six. Um,
okay. That's not the right contract.
Yeah. Okay. So, here we are up on the
edge, right? We had a breakaway
formation from last week. We're well
over the call walls. Absolutely
blowing things out of the water right
now. Our pullback event looks like
potentially the 1day max. So, here we
are.
$82.34.
Pretty good formation. Now, look at
trend still up. Momentum has been
drifting down for a bit. So, dips are
going to be buy zones. Here is uh the
moving average that is holding this
pocket in play. Here's the first line in
the sand. It's 8390
or so, right? That's old resistance, new
support. If we break that ledge,
chances are we will come all the way
down into this 8230 before moving to the
north again. Momentum has really drifted
off, but dips are still buys. Could you
get in here and say, "Hey, I'm going to
buy 8318."
Absolutely, you could. You You really,
really could. So, let's put an alert
there. I think it's a tricky one myself,
but if you're into it, knock yourself
out. A lot of traders have bought the
8085 spread in SLV. They continue to buy
those those contracts. It is forcing
price action to the north. Look at the
volume. This is very speculative. That
means it could reverse in a snap. Um,
and if it continues to move up very
quickly,
watch the CME come in and raise the
margins one more time. Now, as stoppep
traders, we don't have to worry about
that, but for the rest of us that are
trading these in the live markets, we
know that's going to be uh a problem.
Okay, let's go to oil.
So oil futures zoomed up um on the 9th
double topped in the overnight and the
opening range formation that gives us
5980 right the call wall is 60
um you know do you do you want to look
at this and say hey where are these guys
moving
above there if and it pulls back and
holds It's 59. Notice that implies 30
cents of risk. We're going to have a
trouble. Now, it's already tested this
one just a moment ago. And this was my
first buy zone event. 5866. Just tested
it. Now, remember the buy zone, the
trigger comes. So, what do I want to
see? I want to see a bounce and a
pullback that holds the floor. I do not
want to chase it. When the alert comes,
I wait for the chart to tell me that it
is firming up. Now, what's happening?
I'm seeing some wicks, but I'm also
making lower highs. The chart is not
firming up there. I want to see higher
highs and a pullback to higher lows so I
can chase it. If not, I'm very likely to
walk down this formation back into 58.
All right, that's that's just my
thought. My thought is that's where we
head and the deeper pullbacks will give
us another buy zone event because I do
believe oil is finally going to break
out particularly as tensions ease in
Guyana where Chevron really has its
tentacles pressed in and that could
shift things quite dramatically. It's
very very interesting gy government not
saying too much about what's going on
with Venezuela. Everybody's overly
quiet, waiting for some shoes to drop, I
imagine. So, call wall up at 60. Put
wall zero DTE at 57. The big put wall is
still at 55. Kind of a big deal. Let's
go to gold. Did I forget anything? I
hope not. So, here we are in gold. This
is a massive move. Now, if you remember
from way long ago, I said Martin
Armstrong suggested that we could have a
blowoff top up at about 4640
for gold. So, he has not given any
higher targets on gold above this area.
Why do I lean on Martin Armstrong? Well,
as uh colorful as he is, he seems to
have a very good array of
um quantitative
data models that do very very nicely
with price. So, what are we staring
down? Massive move. Listen, we opened up
at 4540.
We are almost 100 points higher. That's
pretty crazy. This is geopolitical risk.
This is geopolitical tension. That's all
it is. Absolutely, without a doubt. Next
Fed meeting comes up in just a little
bit. And of course, this business with
Powell. Listen, I said this in um market
kickoff last night. Do not believe
anything that you read unless it's been
corroborated in three different
independent spaces that are reputable.
Otherwise, just imagine that it is noise
trying to make you trade and clickbait
because literally that's all it is.
Okay. So, could this be what's going on
with the Fed chair? Potentially. I see
it as political geopolitical risk. All
right, huge candlestick of buying
and the follow-up candlestick was down.
So, that's pretty interesting to me. We
need to hold 4614
for more upside pressure
to give us uh a good signal to the
north. Otherwise,
what we're going to do is retrace some
of this. And my suspicion is that the
retrace event comes into
the support area near
or it holds the value area high at you
know 4594
4598.
So these are really important zones. I'm
going to create an alert here. Also this
one is tricky, right? I it's a potential
bleed, but anything coming across the
wires and it's good night Irene for the
shorts. They're going to get absolutely
destroyed because the upward pressure
here is marketkedly significant. We are
incredibly high above the call wall.
It's it's just bananas. The call wall,
everybody's going to be upside down.
They're going to be buying to shift
their gamma and then uh excuse me, their
delta. And then, you know, who knows
what happens on the shallow pullback,
but there's literally no volume here.
So, filling in that volume gap seems
appropriate, but we did have inventory
accumulation from 4421
to 4530, which is 110 points. So, 4530
plus 110 points is 4640. And that is
very close to Martin Armstrong's number.
So, watch that zone. Lot of measured
moves in play here. You want to be
careful and just don't buy it outright
because
uh something wicked this way comes. All
right. Lastly, let's look at SPY.
Taking a look at the chart. Uh
that's quite a savage gap down. Um let
me
Yeah. Yeah. Inventory is very negative.
Look at that bounce action just going
really nicely at the bottom of the
inventory accumulation. So yes, uh
inventory is negative. They are going to
start to unwind that inventory event,
but probably not for another couple of
hours. So bounces should still be sell
zones. What is the spy doing? It opened
up right at the edge of put support,
which is 689. That's going to be our
line in the sand. it loses that zone,
we're going to have more selling more
than likely. So, if it tests this area
and loses it and then bounces and cannot
hold 69 68950,
then we've got ourselves more downside
into 687 and then 686, which is the
bottom of this large inventory
accumulation area. If we bounce at 689
and momentum shifts on the tight time
frames, we can trade this long into 691.
Right? That's the next targeted alert
zone. 691 to 692. Look at the volume
pocket right here. Anchored VWAP. All of
these things give us this as probable
areas to bounce and filling the gap at
69450.
Watch out for that. Today is going to be
a very interesting day. Menzingers,
we're finally back in business. Gonna
see you guys at uh the morning hour.
Look in the spaces for where our times
are and looking forward to seeing
everybody else on the stream. I'll be in
group coaching at 1:15
and 1:15 Eastern. And uh excited about
that. Lots to talk about. Hey, take care
everybody. Be alert. Trade small or not
at all. Remember, risk management is job
one. Take care. See you soon.